---
layout: post
title:  "Word of the Year: 2018"
date:   2019-02-06 14:30:00
categories: others
---

Because I love efficiency and one of my recent school assignments was writing about what we would consider to be our "Word of the Year" I figured I might as well kill two birds with one stone and publish it here as well!
When looking for a definition for the word “development” through google you see a curated list of several definitions. Some of the most relevant ones including, “a specified state of growth or advancement”; “a new and refined product or idea”; and “the process of converting land to a new purpose by constructing buildings or making use of its resources”. All of these definitions revolve around one central idea: making a change. 2018 forced me to face both positive and negative developments throughout the year.

Looking back on the year I saw a pattern of myself making changes in my own life that set me up for success in the future. One of the largest changes was my decision to drop theater as an afterschool activity and take up the opportunity to continue working at what I had at first only intended to be a summer job. However, I think a major deciding factor in that was not only the lack of enjoyment and accomplishment I felt after working on a show as a result of various reasons. What played a much larger role in my final decision was the fact that I had been working at the I.T. Center for Lynchburg City Schools. My current job serves as much more than a job. Many teachers are required to go through continued learning, often referred to as “Professional Development”, where they learn new skills to help with teaching. In my current situation I see it as something very similar. Although, instead of earning certificates and a renewed teaching license I am getting real world experience and a paycheck two times a month.

I have also taken up other opportunities which are helping develop my knowledge around computer science and also my professional network. One example of this was participating in an event known as “MetaCTF” with three other friends of mine. Commonly referred to as a “Capture the Flag” or CTF event. Held at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia, college and high school students from all around gathered to demonstrate and develop their knowledge of Cybersecurity. We ended up placing fourth out of 20 teams which I am quite proud of.
Another example of professional development opportunities I have had is getting sponsored to attend a cyber security conference. I had to apply towards the end of 2018 and found out in early december that I was one of a handful of, mostly college, students selected. I am beyond excited to get to actually attend the conference in early 2019 and learn more about the subject!

Why I specifically mention those two events is because I think they help represent another pattern of this year. I now see myself making strides to help set myself up for a computer science related career. Likely one of the big reasons for this is my ability to drive myself and the closing deadline for college applications that are less than a year away at this point. I personally believe that these factors have pushed me to actually start looking at ways to learn more about Computer Science and also allow for me to stand out from the hundreds of others wanting to pursue a similar career for both college and being able to get a job.
